[MUSIC PLAYING]
[HINGES SQUEAK]
>> I'm Uri Geller.
And this is my Legacy.
[THEME MUSIC]
My introduction into
the CIA, or to the CIA,
was an interesting process.
And I have to go
back in time for you
to understand what made the
CIA interested in my powers.
It started with the Mossad.
I started performing
in Israel in 1960--
end of '68, 1969.
And I was introduced to
generals who actually
came to see my shows and house
parties and private parties
and so on.
And everyone was amazed.
And I was approached
by a general.
And he asked me what else
can I do with my mind.
This is a segment of my life
that I cannot really talk
about.
But I can tell you that
I worked for Mossad.
The information I used to bring
back to Israel's secret agency
was so precise that they
wanted to know how I do it.
How does a human mind--
how does it create a
possibility, a doorway,
for me to be able to bring
information that otherwise they
couldn't?
The Mossad decided that they
don't have the ability--
the computers, the electrodes,
the scientific departments
to study Uri Geller.
So they pick up the
phone and call up
the CIA because the CIA and
Mossad were working together
for many, many decades.
And I guess they still do.
So they asked the CIA
whether they would test me?
And of course, the
CIA jumped on the idea
because they were very
concerned-- the CIA were
concerned that the
Russians were ahead
of them in psychical research.
Now, the CIA already got
information about me.
And they make a deal that the
Mossad lets me go, releases me.
And I leave in 1972, straight
to Palo Alto, California,
to Stanford Research Institute.
And that's where Hal
Puthoff and Russell Targ
and Edgar Mitchell and
all those scientists
who had very direct
links to the CIA,
they set up their
experiments with me.
So that was the beginning.
>> This film describes a
five-week investigation
conducted at Stanford Research
Institute with Uri Geller,
a young Israeli.
The film portrays experiments
that we performed with him
just as they were carried out.
Each scene has been taken
from film footage made
during actual experiments.
Nothing has been restaged
or specially created.
>> The experiments in Stanford
Research Institute conducted
by these scientists for the
CIA and the American defense
department, they were all done
under laboratory controlled
conditions.
Actually, one of the scientists,
Russell Targ, was a magician.
So he knew trickery and so on.
They built a Faraday cage,
or maybe they already
had a Faraday cage at Stanford.
And I sat in this Faraday
cage, in this shielded room.
And drawings were
done outside the room
or in houses of
the experimenters.
And I was not allowed
to touch them.
And I had to sit in that
room with a marker and paper
and duplicate the drawings
that were inside the sealed
envelopes.
And I was 100% correct
almost all the time.
Some drawings were
milimetrically the same size.
I explained it that I was so
precise because I had time.
On a stage, not under laboratory
controlled conditions,
in a show, I don't have time.
I can invest two minutes
or 2 and 1/2 minutes
into a telepathical routine.
But there, trying
to receive a drawing
with extra sensory perception,
I could sit for half an hour.
One of the most complicated
one was a bunch of grapes.
They drew it's 24 grapes.
I got 24 grapes.
If you measure the same--
the size of the grape,
it's the same size.
Really incredible.
Then they have very different
drawings like the devil,
which, strangely enough,
call it religiouswise,
mentally, I couldn't
get the devil.
What I did get are the 10
commandments, Planet Earth,
and a trident that
the devil was holding.
I'm mystified by that.
There was another drawing which
wasn't done by human beings.
A computer, which probably was
in the basement of Stanford
Research Institute, drew--
picked out the word out of
a dictionary, I believe.
That's to the best
of my recollection.
And it drew a kite with a tail.
And I got it.
I got the kite.
And they were amazed.
Now, while these
experiments were going on,
I managed to affect
the computers
in the basement of Stanford.
The rumor is that I
erased computer tapes.
And that's when
the CIA say, what?
He can erase computer
tapes with his mind?
And then I did experiments
with floppy disk,
where I put my hand
over the floppy disks--
because they were
floppy disks then--
and I would erase
the information.
This was vital for the
CIA because, later on, I
did erase computer tapes that
KGB agents were taking out
of Mexico City with
secret information.
I'll talk about
that in a moment.
But one very
well-recorded instant
that happened inside Stanford
Research Institute in Palo
Alto, California
where scientists
put a weight on an
electronic scale under a bell
jar so nobody can say that
I blew on it or I moved it
and under charts that
measure movements precisely.
I made that weight lose--
that weight lose weight.
It levitated probably.
And it's all under
controlled conditions.
And then, this is amazing.
We took a break from
one of the experiments.
And I think it was Hal
Puthoff, who was a physicist,
and Russell Targ, who took
me to the canteen of Stanford
Institute.
And I was eating ice cream.
And I put a scoop of
ice cream into my mouth.
And I feel something
metallic in the ice cream.
So I spit it out onto the table.
And Edgar Mitchell, the
astronaut, picks it up.
And he says, this looks
very familiar to me.
It was an arrowhead, a
broken off arrowhead.
As we walk in the corridor of
Stanford Research Institute,
we all hear a clang on
the wall-- bap, bap, bap.
And on the floor
falls the second half
of that object that I
found in the ice cream.
And Ed picks it up.
You know, Ed walked on the Moon.
He puts it together,
and he says, oh, my god,
this is my tie pin.
I lost it years ago
on a beach in Florida.
Wow!
A genuine dematerialization.
>> Here is another double blind
experiment in which a die is
placed in a metal box, both box
and die being provided by SRI.
The box is shaken up with
neither the experimenter
nor Geller knowing where the
die is or which face is up.
This is a live
experiment that you see.
Geller guessed that
a four was showing.
You will note that
he was correct,
and he was quite pleased
to have guessed correctly.
>> We decided at the outset
to carry out the die and box
experiment until we got
to a million to 1 odds,
at which time the
experiment was terminated.
Out of 10 tries in which
he passed twice and guessed
eight times, the eight
guesses were correct.
And that gave us a probability
of about 1 in a million.
We would point out again,
there were no errors
in the times he made a guess.
>> One scientist they called
Kit Green, who was, I think,
the head of the scientific
department of the CIA
in Langley, Virginia--
Puthoff told Kit Green that
I can see things from afar.
And Kit Green's reaction
was, no, he can't.
And Hal told him, yes, he can.
And Kit Green says, well,
where is Uri Geller?
And Hal Puthoff says,
Uri is right here.
Now, you must understand.
This is way before Skype and
FaceTime and mobile phones.
This is all, you know, the
old-fashioned black telephones.
And Kit Green says,
well, OK, Uri--
I got on the line
with Kit Green.
By the way, while
all this is going on,
I still don't know
that this is CIA stuff.
I think this is some
colleague, scientific colleague
in the Washington area.
>> And I picked up a book, which
is the same book that I had
on my desk at the time
of this phone call many,
many years ago.
This book is a collection
of medical illustrations
of the nervous system.
And I had it on my desk
at the headquarters
building because I was using
it for part of my work.
And I opened it up to a page,
and I just stared at it.
And he said, well, I'm seeing
something kind of strange.
>> And I say, well--
I starts drawing things,
and I throw them--
I crumpled them up,
throw them in dustbin
until finally I get a
drawing which looked
to me like scrambled eggs.
But very, very strongly, I
had the word "architectural"
come into my mind,
"architectural"
or "architecture."
So I write it on my drawing
above these scrambled eggs
that I drew, the
word "architecture."
And that's it.
So I deliver the drawing
out of the Faraday cage or--
I can't remember where I did it.
All I know is that I was
on the phone with someone
in the Washington
area, with a scientist.
>> I later got a
copy of that drawing.
And I was astonished to
find what he had drawn.
Maybe it does look
like scrambled eggs.
But it was a section
of the human brain,
a sagittal section from the
side of the human brain.
But the thing that
caught my attention
was, he had written
across the top of his
drawing the word
"architecture," "architecture."
I had written in my
handwriting the word
"architecture," a
viral infection.
I was looking for
biological warfare
effect on the nervous
system of a threat virus.
And I'd written my
notes, oh, "architecture
of a viral infection."
>> And I got it.
And that, I believe,
convinced Kit Green,
there's definitely something
here that has to be studied.
And I think that a lot
of money was released
to study paranormal
research, psychic research,
and to set up remote
viewing research.
One experiment-- and I
want to make it very clear
that I'm not going to name
the intelligence service that
asked me to do this.
They took me to a laboratory.
It was white walled.
And in the middle of this room
stood a living pig, a huge pig.
And the scientists, two
of them, looked at me
and said, OK, we're going
to go out for coffee.
By the time we come back,
we want the pig dead.
We want you to stop its heart.
I was shattered, shocked.
I mean, I love animals.
And that was one of the
points of me breaking away
from science.
That was so important for me
to say because I would never--
I never accepted dark missions.
I never accepted black missions.
But if you put 2 and
2 together, maybe they
wanted me to stop the
heart of Andropov,
who was the head of the KGB.
Who knows?
They wanted to see if the
human mind could stop a heart?
And why pick a pig?
Because a pig has a very
similar heart to a human being.
Some missions, or most missions
I can't even talk about
because this wasn't--
CIA wasn't the only
secret intelligence.
There was MI5, MI6.
The list goes on.
Now, believe it or
not, they wanted
to see if my mind can
trigger a nuclear weapon.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
So they took me to the Lawrence
Livermore radiation labs,
where they build atomic bombs.
I can't even start describing
you what happened in there.
This falls into
the category of--
think about the most
incredible science fiction film
that you've ever seen.
That's what's happened in that
secret installation of Lawrence
Livermore radiation labs.
Scientists began to hallucinate.
They saw birds flying,
people with no arms.
Washington was so concerned.
CIA were so concerned
about those scientists
at the Lawrence
Livermore radiation labs
that they flew people out.
The things that were going
on at the Lawrence Livermore
radiation labs when I tried
to trigger a nuclear bomb
were amazing.
While my tests were
going on, the word
leaked out to the
media in America.
When I'm saying the
media, there was
a tabloid called the "Tatler,"
and which had a headline--
"He Bends Metal for Scientists."
I still have these papers.
"The National Enquirer,"
"Odds of 1 billion
to 1, Uri Geller being tested
at Stanford Research Institute."
The media was writing about it.
Parallel to that, magicians
who were attacking psychics,
they said psychics
are charlatans.
They're frauds.
They're just magicians.
And they're hoodwinking
people and so on.
So controversy
began to flourish.
But for the CIA, it was great.
It was good.
Because in my opinion,
parallel to the CIA test,
the American department's
psychological warfare offices
were involved too.
So controversy was good.
From one side, it was debunked
so the Russians were mixed up.
What is going on?
Are they testing magicians?
Or are they testing real people
with supernatural powers?
So the CIA took advantage
of the controversy,
of the skeptics trying
to debunk not only me.
But there were other
psychics involved--
Pat Price.
There was another guy
called Ingo Swann.
So it was very,
very interesting.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
But I know that what I've
done for the CIA is real.
Because then they asked
me to do things for them.
So then they sent
me out on missions.
I was in instilled into Mexico.
I was brought into the
Mexican White House
to meet the president.
I had certain tasks that
I cannot talk about.
I was even asked
to feel psychically
whether Lee Harvey Oswald, who
assassinated President Kennedy,
visited the Russian
embassy in Mexico City.
Because the Russian
embassy, at that time,
was the largest espionage
listening center
for Latin America, for the KGB.
And I was asked to do--
I had a handler in Mexico City.
And I did lots of
stuff for the CIA.
And then it kind of rumbled
on, the controversy.
My show business was mixed up.
So for me, controversy
was amazing
because the skeptics were
making me more famous.
They were making me more--
they added mysticism around me.
You know, Oscar
Wilde, 100 years ago,
said, "there is only
one worse thing in life
than being talked about.
And that's not
being talked about."
So the skeptics were fueling the
wheel of publicity around me.
And this was a cover for me
to continue this secret stuff.
Because if the whole world
knew that I'm really real,
I wouldn't be around today.
I wouldn't be
talking to you now.
So that's one point.
Then it got into--
American officers took
me to the White House.
They wanted me to
convince President Carter.
Then Senator Claiborne
Pell got involved,
who was then the head of the
American Foreign Relations
Committee.
So I've done things for them.
One of the missions
I was asked to do,
which came to
light because there
was a Pentagon photographer
there who took pictures--
I was briefed in
London to convince
the Russians to sign the
nuclear arms reduction treaty.
Max Kampelman flew to
London secretly and met me
in a secret location.
So he briefed me.
They flew me to Geneva.
I got very close
to Yuli Vorontsov,
the head of the Russian--
nuclear negotiator.
And telepathically,
I bombarded him--
sign, sign, sign.
And they signed.
Obviously, I can't
take full credit
that I did it totally
because it happened,
totally because of me.
But there's no doubt
that, telepathically, I
was influential.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
So that whole scenario,
the whole aspect,
the capsule of phenomena that
happened in many installations
that I visited,
including Europe--
when I was on TV, the radar
systems were knocked out.
I mean, I'm not saying this.
Other people said that
when the raid of Entebbe
happened, when we flew in planes
there to take out the hostages,
all the radar systems
were knocked out.
The significance of that
is that Israeli planes
could fly into
Entebbe to release
the hostages without being
detected on radar systems.
The mind is so powerful.
And this is why, even until
today, psychical research,
remote viewing research,
not only research,
but work, psychics, intuitives--
forget the word "psychics."
Use the word "intuitives."
Intuitives are
being employed today
by secret services
around the world.
There is no doubt in my
mind that even today, today,
and in the future, there will
always be the human factor.
There will always be those
who can bring in information
without sophistication of
technology, of satellites
and buggings.
Spies on site, no.
They sit in computer
rooms like the guys who
do the drones
thousands of miles away
in different location
on the planet,
and they fly drones, and bombs,
and they spy through joysticks.
And this joystick is the mind.
They have people who
sit by computers.
And they can tell you
movements of submarines,
Russian submarines, trains
with nuclear weapons on them
that move constantly
around and so on.
No doubt that psychics or
intuitives are being employed.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
The remote viewing that I've
done for secret services,
I don't really call
it remote viewing.
I call it ESP, telepathy,
extrasensory perception,
mind-reading.
And the missions I
was asked do are--
for instance, beside
the convincing
the Russians to sign the
nuclear arms reduction treaty,
I was also asked to convince
Russian diplomats to defect.
I remember when the FBI
had a problem in locating
a serial killer in New York.
His name was David
Berkowitz, the Son of Sam.
They put out a map on an easel.
I ran my hand over the map,
and I pointed at a house
in Yonkers, New York.
That's where David
Berkowitz was arrested.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
There are certain
secretive units
that belong to certain
governments that
are very preoccupied
with UFOs visiting
Earth for different reasons.
One, maybe they're hostile.
Two, maybe they're here to give
us information, to teach us.
Maybe-- well, not
maybe, for sure.
The government wants
this information.
So they're still--
believe it or not,
there are those underground,
cloak and dagger,
dark departments of
intelligence services
that are investigating
the possibility that there
is that force out there, and
we want to get to it first.
There's no doubt in my mind.
And sorry to your guys who
are conspiracy theorists who
believe that NASA never
landed on the Moons,
astronauts never
visited the Moon.
Yes, they did visit on the Moon.
And certain things happened
to these astronauts.
I know it firsthand
from Edgar Mitchell.
He revealed stuff to
me that freaked me out.
No doubt there are aliens.
No doubt there are UFOs.
[CREEPY MUSIC PLAYING]
I cannot elaborate more on
that because there are--
it's certain places that
I've worked for and--
I've worked for.
I'm asked even not
verbally but writing-wise
that I'm not allowed
to talk about that.
Ever since I started
demonstrating my abilities,
I always felt that there was
a thinking entity above me.
There was some superior being.
And I'm not talking
specifically about god.
I'm not talking about aliens
but about some kind of an energy
force, a field that is
highly, highly, highly
super evolved than
us, something that can
travel through the universes.
I didn't know the words.
I felt it.
I felt it inside my
mind, inside my heart,
inside my soul that there
is something beyond me that
is making these things happen.
And it governs me.
It stops me from doing things
that it doesn't want me to do.
That is my explanation--
very, very elementary.
But that's it.
So my understanding of
this is that I am me.
I am.
And this thing, this
force directs me.
It doesn't go into me.
It doesn't interfere with
my pattern of thinking.
But it guides me.
That's the right word.
It guides me.
And then when
things are no-no, it
starts playing around
with other people.
They wanted to see if I could
trigger a nuclear weapon,
a nuclear bomb with my mind.
That force outside
said, no, no, don't.
Then it screwed up the minds
of those scientists who
started hallucinating things.
So this is not anymore can
Uri Geller bend a spoon.
Does he do it real or not?
This is screwing up the
minds of other people.
So that force, that entity, that
thinking intelligence can do--
play around with
us, with our minds.
And that's how I would
conclude this segment,
that there is definitely--
this is my opinion,
and no one will sway way
away from my belief system,
that there is indeed something
outside me that guides me,
controls me, but lets me--
allows me to do things
that I want to do.
And I'll give you
the final example.
I am inside a bottle.
The bottle is floating
down the stream of a river.
Inside the bottle, I can
do whatever I want to.
But I cannot stop the
bottle flowing downstream.
[MUSIC PLAYING]